Hi to.
My name is Sergei Unknown.
Our video course is devoted to the basics
of project management.
During this course, we will
consider Russian project management
experience as well as overseas
project management experience.
We will look at it from
both the negative and the
positive side.
The aim of this course is to familiarize
with the generally accepted vocabulary
in project management, with the standard
terminology, which is used not
only in Russia, but also in communication
between different managers,
projects of different countries.
We will briefly examine the main methods
and technologies of project management.
We will briefly examine the most
acceptable approaches in project
management in real conditions
of modern business in Russia.
And I hope this course will help you
in project management in your
enterprise and significantly improve
the quality of project management,
increase the productivity of this
project management process and
somehow systematize the general
material that is considered in
the discipline called project
management.
If we talk about the structure of this
project, then, of course, we will first
touch the history of this area.
Next, the short content, i.e. individual
disciplines of project management.
We will also look at examples, we will
look at better samples of technology
and project management techniques.
Well, it is clear that here we
will also use data from literature,
references, monographs
and textbooks.
So, again briefly about the content of the
sections that we will go through in
this course.
So, the first section is a general
definition, axiomics of project
management, a brief historical
overview of project management
disciplines.
Furthermore, the main structure
or block scheme, which consists
of the discipline of project management,
is primarily three such significant
blocks as control objects,
control subjects, and project
management process.
Further, within the project management
process, we will look more
in detail at the functional areas
of project management,
information systems and
tools that are applied in project
management.
Next, we will consider, in fact,
the organizational structure that
implements the methods, technologies,
use these tools.
This structure is usually called
the project management office or the
project management center of the enterprise.
Now let’s look at the characteristics
of portfolio management.
In addition, we will briefly review
the adopted training systems,
the most effective and certification
systems of project managers.
Finally, let us summarize the results briefly.
Let us go directly to
the material.
If we talk about project management,
it is understandable that the project
activity of a person is as old as
the world, as the person himself.
From the moment of realizing man himself
as a reasonable being, we
understand that at this moment
the project activity begins.
Thus we see that during the entire time
of human existence, a huge amount of experience
has been accumulated in the field
of design activities.
And here to create something
fundamentally new, euristically new
knowledge to give in this field
is very difficult.
During the last 20th century in
the field of project management, there
were fundamentally new knowledge, well,
they can be read on the fingers of
one hand.
But in this area of project
management, many professionals
are trying to orient themselves
in such a way as to take and systematize
the accumulated expertise in
both the field of overall management
and in the field of project
management.
During the 20th century, many experts
and professionals from leading industrialized
countries have systematized the
knowledge acquired by mankind in the
field of project management and are
engaged in the essentially out-of-
the-scenes classification of these materials.
A terminological package is created,
for example, such a package that
is used more or less effectively
in the US, in Western Europe,
in Russia, its own terminological
package is created, which describes
the area of project management.
Naturally, these packages differ, and here
we often get confused when we talk
about a new terminology that describes
the already accumulated experience in
a particular project management section,
or we talk about fundamentally
new knowledge.
In general, we understand that
project management is not
only a complex of scientific
approach, but above all,
this art.
In project management we often
use the same methods that
are applied in art, in this
area of human activity.
And we understand that speaking about
the same essence, about the same
content of project management,
we can use different terms.
Thus, when we begin to analyze
the content of project
management, we may use the
approach of the Project Management
Institute of the United States,
the project management institute,
or we use the terminology
block that is fixed in the international
ISO standards, or in the approach
of the International Project
Management Association,
or in our Russian norms,
which are set out
in such a document called
the National Requirement
for Competence in Project
Management of the Russian
Federation.
This document was developed
by the Russian Project Management Association,
and it is called, in short, the NTC
of Russia in the field of
project management.
In general, it is clear that the area
of project management has been formed for a long
time, and there is a lot of experience.
If we look at different approaches,
we will see that in these approaches,
there is a very, very
much in common.
The only thing that can
differ, I will repeat, is terms.
So let’s look at a general
definition of project management.
What is Project?
In Russian, the word project
means several such entities,
which in English literature
are designated, for example,
by two terms.
The first term
used in English literature
is design.
And it is understandable that we are talking
about the subject essence of the project,
for example, a project of a building,
or a project of an information system,
or a project documentation.
This can be summarized with the term design.
The second term used
in the international community
to describe project activities
is the term project.
And this is just the part of the content
that will be the main part of our video course.
A project is an event
that aims to create a new unique
product or service, performed
within the framework of
limited resources.
There are many different
definitions of projects, precisely as events.
And here we must still choose
the most optimal or the most concise.
I repeat this definition.
Of all definitions, it
is indeed the most meaningful,
on the one hand, and the most
concise, on the other.
A project is an event aimed
at creating a new product or service,
performed within the framework
of limited resources.
With limited resources, we
understand a broad
semantic field.
In particular, time, budget,
financial and economic resources,
material and technical base,
human resources, or sometimes
called labor or human resources,
intellectual resources, technological
resources, and so on.
Already in the definition itself,
if we approach this definition
with a very careful analysis,
we see two keywords.
The first keyword is a new, unique
product or service.
This word is new.
The second key word is limited
resources.
That is, at the first half of
the analysis of this term, we
see that this event is limited in time.
There is a beginning, there is a completion
of the project.
We have a limited budget, so the
budget is clearly fixed.
We are limited in labor resources.
And this limitation, as a rule, we
express it in the term project team.
That is, the group of people,
specialists who are directly or indirectly
involved in the project, in
the implementation of the project.
So, we must initially feel
and understand that we are
dealing with any project with
limited resources.
During this course I will position
myself as a project manager
or, in other words, in Russian,
a manager, a project
manager.
And I will treat you, the listeners,
exactly as the project
managers, as the listeners.
Therefore, we, understanding the
main term in the field of project
management, the project itself, this
fundamental term, we must understand
that the manager, the project manager
should never deal with the problems of
the project, starting with the
seizure of the fact that he did not have
enough time, he did not have enough
budget, he did not have enough labor
human resources and so on.
If we start working in management
with this approach, then, of
course, no specialist, no
professional, no director,
CEO, manager will take
us seriously, as people
who know the basics of project
management.
Why is?
Because it is immediately apparent that
if we start to throw these limitations
into mind, it is immediately apparent
that we do not quite understand
what we are fundamentally dealing
with, namely with project activities
that are based on limited
resources.
If we do the next halfway on the
path of analyzing another keyword,
new, then we will see that in any
project there is an element of novelty
and uniqueness.
This means that if we take any
project, we can find 90% of
novelty and uniqueness in some
projects, half a percent
or a little in some projects,
but in any case this uniqueness,
this novelty is
present.
And this means that we, entering this
sphere of activity, must understand
that the project manager, the
project manager must test the creative
beginnings that will be needed
in the process of implementing
the project sooner or later.
Why is?
Because sooner or later we will
get stuck in this element of novelty,
uniqueness, and we will face problems
that have not been solved so far.
And these problems were not solved not
only by us, not only by our group, our
project team, but also by the
environment, but if we speak in
general, we did not solve this
problem, nobody solved it in our
community, and on a larger scale.
Therefore, we must develop
the ability to solve
problems independently, and
this is often called a creative
approach.
In general, if we take and
compare project activities with other
types of human activities, for
example, with production,
then we will see a fundamental
difference.
In the design activity, everything
is aimed at creating a
new, unique product, in the
production activity, everything
is aimed at creating a
standard product.
In the project activities, not all
approaches, methods are systematized,
described clearly and fully 100% regulated.
In the production activity, the entire
process is regulated, described
very clearly.
These are two main differences
between design and production.
If we consider this keyword "new"
in more detail, we can make such
an analogy in distinguishing
between design and
production activities.
For example, the artist writes a painting.
This phenomenon is unique in itself.
At the output, there is a
unique unique result
- a picture.
But if we begin to reproduce
this picture, copy it, then
production begins.
The sculptor makes a bust of a
significant figure or a state figure.
This event is unique.
At the output has a unique
product result - unique one.
If we start making copies of this
bust to be delivered throughout the
Soviet Union, and the sizes can be
different, for example, 200
thousand pieces, then it is already
production.
Another example.
We need to build new cars
with a capacity of thousands
of cars per day in
24 hours.
We begin this event with the fact
that we explore how to
optimally, methodically,
technologically implement it.
We plan, organize and execute.
We start with the fact that
we determine where it is – land
removal, territory, then we determine
what we are building, maybe
part of the premises we will rent,
maybe part we will build, then
we must solve the issues of communications,
power supply, heat, water,
then the problems of supply of
materials, equipment, then the
problems related to the technological
lines, assembly lines, organizational
problems that affect the creation,
formation of brigades,
installers, assemblers,
up to the point that we must
solve the problems of sales
of the resulting product,
the result of the project,
these new cars.
We start this event, get to
the test operation, release
the test samples and finally
start our production at the
planned 100% capacity.
At the time when we launched 100%
of the capacity, when the acts of delivery
of the relevant bodies,
commissions, we have the
whole process is already going
into the production phase.
Next we start stamping
a typical product, these new cars.
Everything that was before this point
can be clearly attributed to
the project activity, and then all
our actions can be attributed to the production.
It is also interesting to consider the evolution
of the team that was engaged in this project.
Experience shows that the project
team can stay and move to the production
sphere, let’s say the project
manager can stay at the
facility, lead it and
become the general manager
of the plant.
There are such options when a part
of the team stays in production, a
part goes to a new project, and
then, let’s say, a part of the team
or the whole team or the same
project manager goes to a new
project, for example, to
build a new factory somewhere in
Siberia, on Angara.
Thus we understand that, in principle,
the project activity is different
from the production activity, but,
nevertheless, it is interrelated.
This division of design and production
activities, it is clear that it is
introduced by man, it is somewhat
artificial, but, nevertheless, the
main differences in this division
are present.
If we take, consider in general,
what is project management methods,
we see that we can say that in
the activity, in any area
of activity we can apply project
approaches in such a way, considering
activities as a separate project
or group of projects and
applying to these activities,
to these actions the approaches
and technologies that
we apply when considering
the project, when
managing the project.
This is what is called a project
approach, that is, the application
of a full set of techniques
and technologies used
in project management.
If we look more carefully
at what are limited resources, we
will see that we really have
in any project, first of
all, limited time, budget, material
and technical
base, labor resources, and
these limitations impose
specific, and sometimes
very strict requirements
for project management,
for project activities.
We will consider this more in detail.
In fact, the entire process
of planning, organizing and executing
a project is often called the business
process of project management.
The business process of project management
cannot dominate the processes
that directly affect the
subject, the subject essence
of the project.
For example, if we are talking
about the creation of an information system,
it is clear that at the head of the
corner of the project of this should be
the information system itself, and
the methodological, methodological
part - is the service part, which
contributes to the effective implementation
of the project in the subject area.
Thus, we conclude that the
business process of project
management in the enterprise
is a service business process
that ensures increased
productivity, increased
profitability, profitability
or, as we generally
say, the efficiency of
the enterprise’s project
activities.
If we consider the project
activity of man, as I have
said, it really begins at
the moment when man becomes
aware of himself as a
reasonable being.
Many experts consider human
activity from this point
of view that a person differs from
other animals primarily by
the fact that he consciously
plans, organizes and executes
projects, that is, engages
in project activities.
Indeed, the project activity
is very old and we can judge
its results by the records that
remain there, or the remaining
structure, that is,
the results of the project
activity.
And here we see that we are
dealing really with a phenomenon
that has developed over
a large time scale.
It is very interesting to consider
the outstanding projects that have been
implemented in the history of humanity.
Of course, we had different projects
on the time scale of humanity, but
I would like to briefly stop on
2-3 projects.
The most ancient projects
we can somehow judge from historical
evidence are projects related
to stopping civilization in
both Africa, Central
and North Africa, and activities
that affect human
activity in America.
From the moment of the transition
of the Mongoloid races to North
America, then Central and South,
we can observe the remains and
evidence of the project activity.
And this, according to experts, was
about 15-18 thousand years ago.
There is evidence of design
activity in Africa, which relates
us 12 thousand years ago.
Well, more fresh, relatively
fresh evidence, which we can unambiguously
characterize as the results
of project activities.
These are the same Egyptian pyramids,
the pyramid of Cheops.
Well, such projects, for example,
in the UK, the Stonehenge project.
This project, the town of Stonehenge,
was implemented about 4 thousand
years ago.
Many experts in design activities,
in particular, say that
the aim of this project was to
demonstrate the capacities
of man, first of all such
capabilities as that he can build
such unique structures from
giant monolithic stone pebbles.
Well, if you don’t know, in short,
this is a structure that
now looks like P-shaped such structures.
Two monolithic stones stand
vertically, and are turned up.
There are several such structures in
the town of Stonehenge.
But if we carefully and
professionally approach the
study of this project, namely the definition
of the purpose of the project, then
we can see that the purpose of this
project was not to demonstrate
construction capabilities,
but to demonstrate deeper, more
meaningful, more extensive
provisions.
If we look at one of the
central P-shaped arch more carefully,
we will see a small cross-line
in the upper fence, more precisely
the pawn that crosses
this stone.
On June 22, on the day of the
summer solstice at sunrise, the rays of
the sun pass exactly through the
center of this day.
And this is not simple, it
is a clear pattern, and we understand
that the person who created this
in our terminology, the project
manager or project manager,
he consistently created this
layout, this phenomenon.
That is, the project manager,
the project manager in those distant
times shows us that despite its insignificance
or small scale, the human being
in the universe is able to realize
the phenomena of nature of large
scale, significant scale, phenomena
that describe the movement
of bodies of the solar system,
the sun and the earth.
And these are the points that
seem to have been crucial in the course
of this project.
That is, the project manager,
the project manager in our terms, he
set the following goal, to show,
despite the fact that a man is a
sandstone in the universe,
he is able to consciously understand,
study, analyze the phenomena
surrounding.
And the manager, the manager of this
project, leads the viewer,
the consumer, the results of this
project to the point where
this consumer thinks that he
is really such a being, a creation,
but what is his place in this
world, in this life, his purpose,
what he is capable of, and
so on.
And now, after more than 4000 years,
we see that the result of
this project is still in demand.
People come to this place
of Stonehenge and start
to think, really, who they are,
why they are here, what they
can leave behind in the big
sense, after themselves for humanity.
But the task with which
this goal is achieved is
exactly the same as the
project manager took and built
this structure.
That is, we thus clearly see that the
goal of the project is one, the task of
the project or the task of the project
is another.
Through the solution of the project
objectives we the project objectives.
There are many different examples in the
field of project management, project activities.
I would like to briefly stop on
the current section of project activity.
First of all, the analysis of accumulation
and formation of the
terminological body in the
field of project management.
The current situation in the
methodical part here is that we see
that the leading position here is
occupied by Western Europe and the
United States.
We see that here really very structurally
and systematically everything is considered.
New terms were created, a new
base was created, and this is a
zoological classification.
And the founder of all this was at the
beginning of the 20th century Frederick
Taylor.
Frederick Taylor was primarily
engaged in linear processes, analysis
of production activities,
but these results of his
analysis already went to the analysis
of project activities.
His continuator, associate at
one time was Henry Gunt, the
same Gunt who invented the
diagram, it is so called, bears
his name.
The Gantt Chart is
used in almost all modern
project management tools,
such as, say, Microsoft
Project, Primovera,
Spyder and many others.
We see that very deep, serious classification
developments have gone on in this
field, and all this has led to
the fact that a new foundation
of classification character
has been laid in the field
of project management.
This is a Western approach,
sometimes called the Taylor
approach, and it really
has a production base.
It is often called mechanical
or conveyor approach.
The essence of it is that if we consider
the project as a single whole,
as a single process, then we can
an increase in the efficiency
of this activity, that is, the
efficiency of the project.
We can increase this
efficiency by taking the whole
process, breaking it into component
units, while each link has
defining roles, and each
role has functions.
In this situation, project management
will be reduced to monitoring
during the implementation
of the process, how responsible
executives and executives
ensure the execution
of planned defined functions.
That is, the effectiveness of the
project can be maximum if at
each site, in each link of this
activity, this process we approach
as closely as possible
to those requirements that
we have recorded in
the instructions.
And thus everything is reduced to the
fact that we essentially stamp these
functions in each link, that is,
the conversion method.
If we take a little distraction
from the Western approach and look
wider, and what was done, let us admit
in Russia, whether we have
attempted some systemic, one
can say, scientific methodological
approach in the field of design
activities, then we will find
that there is really no white space
here, and here we have quite certain
developments in Russia, and these
developments are rooted not
in the early 20th century,
but in the early 19th century.
And these developments are related
to the name of the outstanding
Russian state figure Mikhail Mikhailovich
Spiransky.
In 1825 he published several
of his papers, which he described
systematically, one can say on
a scientific basis, management
or in our terms management, including
the management of activity,
which we now call project
activity.
Mikhail Mikhailovich Spiransky summarized
both Western European experience and
Russian experience, he explained
this in his works, then his initiatives
were picked up by many of our outstanding
figures, including Petro Arkadyevich
Stolypin, who worked at the turn
of the late 19th and early
20th century.
Petro Arkadyevich Stolypin applied the
workings and experience
of his predecessors, first of all, in practice.
His one of the main projects, the
agrarian reform project, unfortunately,
was only completed somewhere
in a third, different researchers
argue differently, but
it is clear that he did not complete
his project, he did not pass
even half due to the circumstances.
You probably know that he was killed
in early last century in Kiev, and
he was unable to complete his main project,
but even after going through part
of the road in this project, he
achieved significant results.
In 1911, Russia, from a backward
agri-state in which there was
a phenomenon such as hunger,
food shortage, agricultural
shortage, Petro Arkadyevich
Stolypin brought Russia
to one of the leading
places in the agri-
sphere in the world.
As a result of this project,
he was able not only to feed
all Russia, but also to export
a significant part of
agricultural products
abroad.
Another associate of Russian
methods of project management was
Alexey Kapitonovich Gastev.
This is a wonderful man, a poet of
the Silver Age, one of the friends of
Velimir Khlebnikov.
He was engaged in management in our
terminology, on a systemic approach.
In the early century, during the so-
called Neap of new economic
policy, Aleksey Kapitonovich
Gastev organized the Central
Institute of Labor of the
Russian Federation.
This is the 23rd, the beginning of the 24th
year of the last century.
And here on a scientific basis, Alexey
Capitonovich and his employees develop
the so-called scientific organization
of labor approach or, in
short, note.
The results of these developments
were used in the Soviet Union and
are now being used.
In this approach, the employees
of the Central Institute of Labor
have systematized the methods,
technologies, not only
of production operational
activities, but also of activities
that we now call project
activities or Project
Management.
At the same time, Alexey Capitonovich
explored our national Russian
features and mentality,
and business, and business,
as we now say, well,
including project management.
It is interesting to note that
Gastev worked at about the same
time as Taylor, but the approaches
in project management were significantly
different.
Gastev understood that in the depths of
his soul, every Russian considers
himself a person, in the depths of his
soul, every participant in the project
activity, every member of the project
team, he considers himself a person
and therefore he treats himself as a
person and requires others to treat
him with respect, to treat him as
a person.
Analyzing the entire complex
of national characteristics,
life values, traditions of people
who work, as we now say, in business
in Russia, Gastev comes
to the following conclusion,
which he places in methodological
approaches to the management
of the same project
activity.
If we take, consider project
management as a single process, if
we take, divide this process into
separate units and if we take from
each unit, identify executives and
responsible executives, then when
considering the problems of increasing
the efficiency of the project
as a whole, we must take into account
suggestions and those thoughts,
those ideas that executives
or responsible executives
give us on each link working
in the given process.
For example, if we have a tokar in
the project and if we analyze
the problem of how to increase the efficiency
of this link, the tokar with its machine,
then we should take into account the opinion
of the developers of this
machine, the creators of this
machine, technological aspects
should take into account, what the
technologists say to us, up to
the point that we take into account,
of course, and scientific all kinds
of technologies that are used
on this link, but at the same time
we must take into account the opinion
of the tokar itself, the
responsible executor on this
link of the project management process.
In principle, no one else can
know how this machine is arranged,
how it works, its features, and
he can say a rational word about
improving the work of this
machine, about improving the
efficiency of the specifically
entrusted link that is part
of the project management
process.
Thus, the corner is put
here, which we then began to
call personal, or as they say
in business, we must take
into account the human factor.
It is interesting to note that Frederick
Taylor’s associate, Henry Gantt,
who worked with Taylor at one
time, pointed to Taylor that Taylor
did not pay enough attention
to the human or personal
factor.
And that this is a weak spot
in the methodological approach, which
was then transferred to the project activities.
As for Gastev, we see that this is
a personal approach, it necessarily
takes into account, as we have
said, the human factor.
And this is the main essence
of the distinction of Taylor’s approach,
or as they later began to say,
personal approach.
We call this approach in Russia
the Gastev approach.
We see that Taylor’s approach
is being actively adjusted
in the West.
These approaches now correct the side
of mandatory accounting of the
individual, the human factor, and they
are called a flexible approach.
That is, in modern methods of
project management, including in
the West, approaches are used where
the conveyor or mechanical Taylor
approach and personal approach,
which takes into account the
human factor, are combined.
Russia is between the East and the West.
Many say that Russia is at
the breakdown of two civilizations,
but I still hold on to
the point of view of experts
who say that Russia is more
likely to be at a breakdown.
In the field of management, in the
field of project management,
we use both Western and Eastern
approaches.
From this point of view, of course,
it is interesting to look at
at least briefly, and what is being
done in the East.
By the East we first understand
such present states
as South Korea, Japan,
China, Singapore and so on.
Here we see that the project
activity is also developing very
extensively, and there are significant
successes.
In general, one of the outstanding
achievements in management is associated
with the name of Confucius.
And when we analyze the internal origins
of the specific approaches already existing,
the technologies of project
management in the East, we understand
that all this is one way or another
related, for example, with the philosophy
of Confucius, Confucianism.
It is with the fact that the corner
here is placed, for example, the
achievement of harmony, family
values, which Confucius at one time
set out his approaches.
It was built in the 5th century
before Christ.
It is clear that there are many specifics
in the East, and this specificity
imposes its own characteristics on
design approaches.
And when we look at project
management in Russia, we also see
that the East influences us,
and the West influences us.
And, of course, we take into account
our national characteristics, and we
see that Russia has its own approaches
in the field of project management.
But, nevertheless, we see that
a large part of our business
uses Eastern project management
methods.
For example, such techniques that
are used for economical production,
techniques that are used for
economical business, more
efficient project management,
these are techniques that
are now called Kaizen,
are widely used in
Japan, in the automotive
business, and so
on.
Methods that say that we can make
a small amount of resources, effort
to lead to the fact that the
efficiency and results
of activities, including the
project, can be significantly
improved.
In Russia, it is also used, often
this technology is linked with
another, which is called the method
of economical production or
the method of economical
project activities.
I will give a brief example from the
application of Kaizen technology in Russia.
If we look at, for example,
an information technology project,
I have seen from my practice
how Kaizen technologies
are used.
Specifically, consider one of the
points of such a project on
the creation of a local computer network.
The installation of the horizontal
CCC in the premises of the structured
cable system, which is part
of the local computing
system of the project as a whole.
One of the installers, a very experienced
person, a professional of high
level, took the whole room and
the management entrusted him to
do this volume of work on his own.
A person measures, very carefully,
professionally, without making
unnecessary movements, goes
and makes a mark, makes a hole
for this horizontal
structured cable system
by a perforator.
At the same time, if you look
from the side, and I was exactly
such an eyewitness, I had the
impression that a person just walks
along the wall and not quite
deliberately somehow strange
makes these holes a perforator.
And, of course, from the side
of the external observer, this
looked very and very strange.
When we approached this man, the
monter, he, though distracted from
his work, explained to us what
the essence was.
It turns out, it goes very
measurably and confidently in length,
that is, along the wall measures
a certain distance through
which these holes should be applied.
And in height he has a line on
his pants here, and he is along
a certain mark and makes these
holes.
After understanding what the essence
of this approach is, we analyzed it and came
to the following conclusion.
Instead of installers several
people long, using different tools
and so on, to apply these labels
first, and then start to do
holes perforator, you can take
this innovation and spread to
the entire scale of the enterprise,
which is engaged in the
installation of LWF or structured
cable systems, their
installation.
That is, as a result of this analysis,
the methodologists concluded that
it is necessary to apply these labels
on the clothes of all the installers,
to train these techniques,
and then the productivity
of the SCC installers
is significantly increased.
The cost of this correction is very small,
and the result is tangible.
This is one of the elements that is
used, for example, in the Kaiten.
There are different options.
It is interesting to note
that the Kaiten technology is often
combined with a technology that is often
called the Hochin Conry.
And this technology, it is reduced to
the fact that when performing a particular
separate project, we must very clearly
align its goals, its business orientation
with the general business
strategy of the enterprise, with
the so-called business policy or
strategic development of business
at the given enterprise.
If we talk about the keys, then, as
a rule, it is a tactical scale
of change or it is the scale
of tactical actions in the project activity.
Hossein Conry is touching the strategy.
He already this method relates
to working with strategy,
with strategic business goals.
These two methods complement each other.
If you look at the latest trends
in business development in China,
you can see that the significant
volume of GDP growth, the significant
volume of business production industry
in China, it is also related to
national features in China
and, above all, with such structures
of organizational structures
of enterprises, which
are called Tuang-shi.
This is a three-level structure and it
allows organizations with
three-level management to
implement significant business volumes.
So what is the essence of
three-level management?
In being CEO, there is
the next level of manager
or project managers,
and the third level is performers.
All, only three levels.
In the West and Russia, as a rule,
the management structure or
organizational structure in
the enterprise is multi-level and
it can contain 8, 10, in
some organizations 12 levels.
It is clear that in a multi-
level system we have a significant
amount of management
additional buildings, which
in some situations can lead
to a decrease in the efficiency
of activity, to a
decrease in the efficiency
of the project, if we consider
the organizational structure
of a particular
project.
How is the interaction within the
project team?
If we take a multi-level structure,
it is clear that here we have a
significant portion of additional
actions that agree to pass on
the exact lines in the
practice of project management.
This is called ballast costs or
ballast technologies, and we must
look very carefully
at the negative properties
of multi-level structures.
In some multi-level organizations
there are 2-3 employees
at each level.
If we take such a structure, in which
there are 2 employees on the same level
and we have 12 levels in total, then
it turns out that the entire staff of
the enterprise is equal to 2 in 12 degrees.
That’s, if I’m not mistaken, more than
4000-4048 employees.
If we take the three-level
enterprise structure that uses Tuang-
shi technology, then here at the
ratio between levels 1 to
50, we have the total enterprise
staff of 2,500.
That is, at the top level,
one CEO, in his subordination
50 managers or managers,
and then each manager,
each manager, 50 executives.
50 square to 2500 employees.
Thus we see that in general the staff
is in the first case when we have
12 levels of management, and in the second
case when we have only 3 levels
of management the staff of the
enterprise is the same.
This same ideology is reflected
in project management when
designing project teams.
And it is understandable that
we, using Eastern methods, can come
to the fact that we will significantly
reduce management costs and thus
release resources for
direct work in the business in
the subject area.
However, in the West, this approach is
not always acceptable, and in Russia,
too, it is not always optimal.
And the reason is that in the East,
in particular, in China, when organizing
interaction in the project team,
when organizing interaction
in the team family values are used.
Relationships are based on family
relationships.
That is, if the head of the family
has made a decision and it is brought
to all members, then this decision
is performed optimally,
of course, and management or management
is very effective here.
At the same time, the basis of
all relationships is
the principle of trust, trust.
The higher the trust, the less
we can use levels of control.
In fact, if the level of trust is
high, then the project manager can
have at the same time in the
nearest interaction to be
even 50 people, as in the ideology
of Tuan Shi.
But managing 50 people effectively
is possible if we really
have a very high level
of trust.
On the other hand, if we have all of
these 50 of our closest employees,
professionals, if they can really
work independently and
qualitatively, in such a situation
we understand that in the Tuang-
shi ideology, the dominant are
not vertical links from
top to bottom, but horizontal
connections.
In general, if we approach the assessment
of project activities and
compare it with production, we
see that in the project activities
are in demand primarily horizontal
connections, in the production
activities vertical.
The principle of cooperation
is used primarily in project activities.
In the production sphere, where vertical
connections dominate, there
is the principle of management
or chief, the boss, the subordinate.
In project activities we can great
results, perform the project
more effectively if we approach the
organization of the project team
precisely from the point of
view of cooperation.
Not using the principle of “I am the
boss, you are subordinate”, but using
the principle that we in the team
all cooperate to effectively
the project goal, effectively and
qualitatively the project results,
results in such a way that we
have been fulfilled all the planning
parameters that we set at the very
beginning, starting the project,
namely project implementation time,
budget, resources used in general,
functional characteristics of
the result of the product
or service of the project, quality
requirements that are described
in the project documentation,
in project accounting
documentation and so
on.
In this regard, the work of such
outstanding managers of the last
century as Edward Deming and Joseph
Juran are very interesting.
These professionals at one time approached
the process of quality management
of project activities very seriously,
they considered these processes
from different sides and created
the so-called approach of total
quality management, universal quality
management.
This is a sub-discipline
in project management.
In the early 1950s, Deming was dealing
with these problems, he came
to Japan and started to implement
his ideas there.
If after World War II, production,
industry in Japan at the output
had products, the results are
not very high quality, then
in 20-25 years we see how much
the quality of Japanese
products has changed.
And now the Japanese term in
many by default means high quality.
This was done by Edward
Deming, one of the founders
of total quality management,
the general quality
management of the project.
One of Deming's associates in
Japan was Kaoru Ishikawa.
He also paid special attention
to his research, his work was of quality.
And he has explored
causal relationships in project
management, in project management.
He also approached project management
in a diverse way, he tried to facilitate
the activities of
project managers, managers.
And he invented several very
interesting technologies that are
still successfully used in the
field of project management.
One such technology will be introduced
later, when we, for example,
consider the risk management
section of the project, and
there we will use the
Ishikawa chart.